Move tour to overview (#21066)
dotnet/docs: docs/csharp/getting-started/index.md

---
title: Get Started - an introduction to the C# language and .NET"
description: Learn the basics of C# and .NET. Get an overview of the C# language and .NET ecosystem.

> ms.date: 10/13/2020

Reviewer: Are the helpviewer_keywords intentionally removed?
I assume they have something to do with SEO

Author: They were intentionally removed. They were historically used for search in the offline CHM versions of Visual Studio help. They aren't needed any more.

- Language-Integrated Query (LINQ), which provides built-in query capabilities across different kinds of data sources.
- Pattern matching, which enables control flow by inspecting data types and values.

You interact with native components through a process called "Interop". Interop enables C# programs to do almost anything that a native C++ application can do. C# even supports pointers and the concept of "unsafe" code for those cases in which direct memory access is critical.

The C# build process is simple compared to C and C++ and more flexible than in Java. There are no separate header files, and no requirement that methods and types be declared in a particular order. A C# source file may define any number of classes, structs, interfaces, and events.

The following are additional C# resources:

- For a good general introduction to the language, see the [Tour of C#](../tour-of-csharp/index.md).
- For detailed information about specific aspects of the C# language, see the [C# Reference](../language-reference/index.md).
- For more information about LINQ, see [LINQ (Language-Integrated Query)](../programming-guide/concepts/linq/index.md).

## .NET Platform Architecture

> C# programs run on .NET, a virtual execution system called the common language runtime (CLR) and a unified set of class libraries. The CLR is the commercial implementation by Microsoft of the common language infrastructure (CLI), an international standard. The CLIis the basis for creating execution and development environments in which languages and libraries work together seamlessly.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
C# programs run on .NET, a virtual execution system called the common language runtime (CLR) and a unified set of class libraries. The CLR is the commercial implementation by Microsoft of the common language infrastructure (CLI), an international standard. The CLI is the basis for creating execution and development environments in which languages and libraries work together seamlessly.
```

When the C# program is executed, the assembly is loaded into the CLR. The CLR performs Just-In-Time (JIT) compilation to convert the IL code to native machine instructions. The CLR provides other services related to automatic garbage collection, exception handling, and resource management. Code that's executed by the CLR is sometimes referred to as "managed code", in contrast to "unmanaged code", which is compiled into native machine language that targets a specific system.

Language interoperability is a key feature of .NET. IL code produced by the C# compiler conforms to the Common Type Specification (CTS). IL code generated from C# can interact with code that was generated from the .NET versions of F#, Visual Basic, C++, or any of more than 20 other CTS-compliant languages. A single assembly may contain multiple modules written in different .NET languages, and the types can reference each other as if they were written in the same language.

> In addition to the run time services, .NET also includes an extensive library of over 4000 classes. The .NET library is organized into namespaces that provide a wide variety of useful functionality for everything from file input and output to string manipulation to XML parsing, to web application frameworks to Windows Forms controls. The typical C# application uses the .NET class library extensively to handle common "plumbing" chores.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In addition to the run time services, .NET also includes an extensive library of over 4,000 classes. The .NET library is organized into namespaces that provide a wide variety of useful functionality for everything from file input and output to string manipulation to XML parsing, to web application frameworks to Windows Forms controls. The typical C# application uses the .NET class library extensively to handle common "plumbing" chores.
```

Is 4,000 classes accurate - I'd imagine that it's WAY more now? Also, you mention the ".NET library" here as if there is only one, which one are you referring to - I'm confused by that? Do you mean the runtime? If so the, there are multiple implementations...I'm not sure how to update this. Maybe a link to the library?
